INTRODUCTION XXV

RHYTHM.

virgil uses in the Aeneid the metre known as Dactylic
Hexameter, that is a line containing six dactyls, each dactyl
consisting of one long syllable followed by two short syllables.
Two irregularities however are to be noticed3 first, the last
foot has but two syllables (a long and a short, or two long) ;
secondiy, in any one, two, three or even four of the first four
syllables a dactyl may be replaced by a spondeo, that is a foot
consisting of two long syllables.

This metre is generally represented thus

—Vv -ν

—vv

 

—v—vl-vmv —vv

 

Thus sixteen different arrangements of the line are possible
(apart from the variation in the last scot), viz. one with tho
first four feet dactyls, four with one spondee in the line, six
with two spondees in the line, four with three spondees in the
line, and one with four spondees in the first four feet. For
examples see the lines indicated on page xxix.

ELISION.

But in a majority of the lines a further difficulty aris-os.
Where the last syllable of a word ends in a vowel, or in m.
and the first syllable of the next word begins with a vowel or
h, these two syllables are elided or taken together and counted
as one. Such a case is called elision* For example vera
inquit, counts as three syllables in scansion, so also tegerem
ut, divum humo, curru haeret.

SCANSION.

Probably the best way for beginners to get the scansion oc
virgil is as follows: Mark first all cases of elision3 then the
two last feet, which uniformly consist of the last five syllables,

³ Elision is usually marked thus .- versa ) inquit οι· veraffiinquit.

